Tri-colored glazed pottery of the Tang Dynasty, a kind of decoration on pottery using glaze or slip, is one of the most famous Chinese traditional craft. Most of the potteries are yellow, green or white and comes from Tang dynasty, so this sort of craft is also called Tang Sancai. 
Tang Sancai originated in Tang Dynasty mainly because of the rapid development of nation power and culture at that time. What¡¯s more, the development of?green-glazed pottery?also began in Tang dynasty. The wealthiness of Tang dynasty led to the corruption of ruling class. The nobleman and governor could choose some potteries decorated with Tang Sancai to bring to their mausoleum after their death. As a result, Tang Sancai became more and more popular then.
In the middle of Tang dynasty, Tang Sancai came to its peak. Almost everything from animal to furniture could become the theme of Tang Sancai. Also, potteries were colored by glaze of more than three kinds of colors. In early Tang dynasty, only one-color-glaze or two-color-glaze were used on Tang Sancai. In 1920s, a lot of Tang Sancai was excavated in Luoyang, Henan while people were building Longhai railway line. Those potteries was delivered to Beijing and absorbed the notice of famous schlars such as Wang Guowei and Luo Zhenyu. From then on, Tang Sancai was researched on and appreciated by people and became one of the symbols of Chinese culture.
Tang Sancai is produced in low temperature and uses?lead-glazed earthenware, so it¡¯s easier and cheaper to make than?Chinese porcelain?or?celadon. Tang Sancai is the representation of the strong power of Tang dynasty, making us imagine the vibrancy of Chinese nation. What¡¯s more, Tang Sancai contains some western element, so it¡¯s also a proof of the communication and trade between China and western countries in Tang dynasty. Various colors are used alternatively on the same pottery, adding aesthetic values to Tang Sancai.
In brief, Tang Sancai, with a long history, has practical,?cultural and aesthetic value.?
